Dear students, regarding the topic of love and
family, I respectfully ask my homeroom teacher,
when I find out that my lover or
husband is having an affair and is a
Buddhist, how should I react so as
not to be hurt, not to harbor jealousy,
and to resolve the issue without creating
negative karma? I am grateful for this. Who wouldn't
want this, right? Oh, suddenly, seeing
someone with someone else makes me think of
the moment they held my hand, and I can't stand it. Then I
start imagining,
right? I imagine how they
hugged me before,
how they
kissed me before. Now I
imagine it! Oh, it has to be me, not
someone else.
That causes us so much suffering.
Human emotions are
something we can't let go of because the
elements that make us human are form, feeling, perception, volition, and consciousness. That is feeling, and feeling
arises from craving, so it's very
difficult to let go. For example, when we eat a piece of water
spinach, we find it delicious, and we wonder if we'll
want to eat water spinach again next time. Feeling
is the feeling of deliciousness, craving is the
desire.  Wanting more, that's why sensation and
perception are connected, right? And form, sensation,
perception, and action—that is, creating sentient beings—if
one element disintegrates, then sentient beings will
disintegrate. That's
why it's extremely difficult. Studying
Buddhism will make it not difficult anymore. This
explains why monks don't bother going out into the
world; they prefer to practice because there's something far more profound than the
worldly realm. So,
this sensation is something
we must have,
but we can control
the perception. When we have sensation, we have the perception
that our ears perceive sound, that we
hear, "Your lover has someone else," "
Just received that sound," and then the perception arises.
Before the perception arises, it's "
going with someone else," "
Hello, where are you?" "
Are you working?" "Are you telling the truth?" "No." [
Laughs] "I
'm with some girl, right? Don't lie!"
It just spontaneously imagines. Having sensation and perception are connected;
they are linked together, and it
takes an incredible amount of energy. How can there be sensation when they are so closely connected?
Don't imagine;
that's something we must control. Here, I'll
answer you.  This is how it is for you, children:
Longevity is something we must have, but we
must live with the truth. This idea
must be genuine thinking,
not something we imagine.
What is genuine thinking? Before
loving, think;
while loving, think; when we break up,
we won't be afraid anymore, we won't worry anymore.
I applied this before I
knew about Buddhism. When I loved my boyfriend,
I said this: "When we're in love, I say this."
This is just sharing with you, children. I said, "I
love you 10 times out of 10." "I only love you, Seven," I said, "
but I'm very faithful. If we
break up because we're incompatible,
I'll find someone else.
But if you leave me, I won't
say I'll be heartbroken. I only love you,
Seven," I said, "but I'm
very faithful." And where do the other three parts go?
These three parts are reserved for loving ourselves, right?
We have to love ourselves too. I love
you wholeheartedly, like a witch with all her heart. And what about loving ourselves? We
love ourselves too, right? If we don't love ourselves, when we
die, what part will we have left
to love ourselves? Three parts is loving ourselves,
those three parts will develop further.  It's divided into 7
more parts. When we leave, we already have ourselves,
so we continue to love ourselves, right? No matter how
devoted we are, that's the
truth. So if you leave me, I'll stand
strong, no problem. Because how could you
leave me and make me sad, miserable, or ugly? That's
impossible. It's not because of
you that I'm beautiful, but because I want to be beautiful, not
because of you. I'm beautiful because
I want to be beautiful, not because of you. I'm
still beautiful normally without you, right? Be
wise, see?
Before loving, you have to be consistent,
right? Very loyal,
very straightforward, but not blindly in love.
Loving to the point where you become addicted to it? That's like gambling; if you
love it, you're dead. Love means
we have to share responsibility for
this life.
When we no
longer have responsibility, then we break up
because we both desire happiness.
We have to be wise. Although
we love very much, we only love the
good qualities of the other person. If there are
bad qualities that I can't get rid of, then I
won't love them either. I can't love those bad qualities.  If
you're like that, later on, if
I'm in debt from gambling, will you still love me? Even if I do
n't love you,
how can I possibly love you?
[Laughs]
Blindly, right? You say you love me because of my
good qualities. When I
lose those good qualities, that love will
diminish. Who can love me? Whoever
loves, loves, but you're doomed. You can't love me, can you? Be
wise in your love. So when someone cheats,
that's a bad quality.
I can use my feminine nature to forgive
once, but a second time is unacceptable.
We have to be firm. Be
wise from the start,
right? So you should tell your husband
this: when you're in love, you say, "At home, you
're my husband. Outside, I don't
care whose it is, I don't care about it.
We didn't learn that, did we? That
's the truth, right? When the time comes, you tell him to come home. That's
responsibility. We
live with responsibility. If there's no
responsibility, we handle it with irresponsibility.
The salary you bring home in the morning—whether it's enough or not—
must be explained
reasonably,
not forbidden. You
have to explain, not just say this and that.
Bring the rice home and close the rice cooker, that's
absolutely right, there's no rice, we're sharing rice, but
now if you don't bring money home,
where do you take it? If you're in difficulty, you have to share, where will the rice come from? We
have to build a house, raise children,
children have to study, children have to get sick,
parents have so much work, if they can't work, we'll have to eat salt and fish sauce. That's what we don't have, but we can't accept it. Taking money elsewhere is unacceptable, it's not a shared life, do you agree? Love is built on countless real
events, it can't be
blind.
What does it mean to be
built on reality? A person must know how to take care of their family, isn't that building on reality?
Therefore, love must be built on
reality. We only love what
brings us happiness, anything
that destroys morality cannot be loved. No
one can love someone who steals, lies, and
deceives. We say we love
people, but in reality, we love two
things: firstly, the appearance (
this one looks appealing), and secondly, the character (this one looks appealing).  It's okay to be in a
relationship, but if the person's
character is bad, we'll suffer, so we should be prepared for that.
This is something we perceive ourselves to have. Some
people are wise in
love, and some are blind in love. It's really about
loving our own thoughts, isn't it? Let's analyze it again: we love our own thoughts, we love
our own viewpoints. So if we have wrong viewpoints, we have wrong lives. If we have wise viewpoints, we have wise lives, isn't that right? Saying "I love you, that's my viewpoint." "I think short people are
beautiful, I love short people." "I
think tall people are beautiful, I love
tall people." Is that
loving
our own viewpoints? Isn't that right? We only
love our viewpoints, nothing else. When our viewpoints aren't met,
we stop loving. Is that right? We love our own viewpoints,
not anything else. So,
we must be wise in our viewpoints to avoid
suffering and distress. Therefore,
I'll answer this question: It's not just about lovers
or husbands, but about our lives.
We must have a clear perspective to avoid
suffering.
A person who lacks a clear perspective, who
hasn't studied Buddhism, who hasn't understood it
thoroughly, will have an impermanent mind—
today they like one person, tomorrow they like another.
And when we take someone, we're
taking their mind, abandoning the person. If we take
an impermanent mind, we must
accept that it is supreme,
right? That must be determined beforehand to
avoid suffering. So, before
I knew about Buddhism, I also
determined beforehand that in marriage, someone might
love me today, but tomorrow they could love someone else.
So we face that situation.
Nothing is fixed. If someone can love me, they can also
love someone else.
What am I to say I'll only love
myself for the rest of my life? It's illogical, completely
illogical. Because sometimes I see
someone else and I like them, so
how can I forbid them? But there are things I can
control, things I like, while
others can't.
Right? What is that?
[Applause]
That's what people call Buddhist Dharma—seeing the truth clearly.
You can like someone else, but you can
control it.  Emotions arise because we have many
things, we have many children, we have many things to
balance, but people's emotions are
not balanced. Many
emotions cannot be balanced,
and many people, at that moment,
cannot balance them. We also have times
when we cannot balance them, right? So,
sometimes people cannot balance them simply because
they cannot balance
this or that, because
they
like that more, so they cannot balance it. That's all. So, can we understand that? If
we can understand, then we can
accept it. So, how can we avoid suffering?
We must
recognize the truth,
then we won't suffer. If we don't know the truth, we will inevitably suffer. We don't
know
what the truth is. People
can like someone else, and now they like someone.
Well, let's go quickly. If you like someone, go to
that place so I can redo
it sooner, right? Let me
tell you, back then,
when young people got married and only
had one child, people called it a "woman with one
child who looks worn out."  It's common for
single mothers to have affairs. Their
husbands work far away, so of course there
are people who flirt with them. She thinks very
quickly, "I have two legs and two
arms, I can work and earn a living, and
my husband brings money home. So if
I have an affair with
this guy, at most I'll only get money, but he
has everything my husband has,
so what's the difference?"
[Applause] That's
the thinking in there. She's telling the truth.
But if I have an affair with this guy,
I have to do it secretly. If
my parents find out, they'll be so embarrassed, right?
Meanwhile, if I have an affair with this guy,
I'll have to deal with my husband. Oh, it's so
tiring. Having to constantly deal with it is exhausting. I'll just
decide not to go down
that path. I'm smart, I'll recognize the
truth, why not? And it's the same with my grandparents
in family life. Very
decisive. If we separate, I can still
work and earn a living. At most, I'll just start over,
right? Oh well, a five-story house,
what else? Separating is also fine.  It's just giving your all and starting over,
what's the big deal? Before,
I started from scratch, and now I'm starting from scratch again. Whether
rich or poor, there's nothing to be upset about. It's
simple, can you see that?
Living like that, it's truly like
that, and you'll never be truly poor, never suffer.
People with that mindset will never suffer,
never be jealous.
So, when we face everything,
we must see ourselves as people who can control themselves, independent.
We don't necessarily
have to depend on anyone, and no one in
this world can make us suffer.
Only we ourselves can make us suffer. If we love
someone, we accept them; if they leave and find
someone else, we can
get rid of that emotion. We have to be able to do that.
Those emotions are necessary, my dear children.
But we must be able to do it; we
must live better. We will shake hands with
relatively good people to walk on
our path, the path that suits us. That
is the right and true mindset that
we must have. We must
face things and not give up in the face of reality.
I think we need that willpower, don't we? We do
n't need it. The truth is, that's how it is.
People leave you, and even if you eat, it probably won't
change anything. So, being in
control of yourself is best, rather than wasting time feeling miserable and complaining.
If he answered, "
No, I don't love you anymore, I have
someone else," would
n't that be better? It's better than... Oh my god, back then, you
and I...
From that day on, you and I...
I sacrificed my youth for you. You
sacrificed your youth for me? I did
n't sacrifice my youth for you,
right? Everyone sacrifices, but
now I don't like you anymore,
I like someone else. I
can't control it either. We have to
see the truth, that's how it is. Living
with the truth is great. Learning Buddhism is great;
learning Buddhism helps people find happiness, that's what it is.
[Applause]
So there is no death. We still
encounter people who deceive us, and if we do
n't blame them, then so be it.
People have already deceived us. Currently...  Now
we need to figure out how to deal with the consequences
and learn from this experience for next time,
instead of wasting time cursing and
complaining in that space. It's a
waste of time and suffering. Let it go. If you ca
n't control your emotions, just
say a few harsh words and then complain for a lifetime. It's
tiring, isn't it? That's great,
kids! Studying Buddhism is wonderful. I
think life is very
happy when you know about Buddhist teachings.
[Applause]
[Music]